Principle of consistency.
cue-1
Do you have a friend or colleague who repeatedly asks for small favors
cue-2
such as financial assistance or other forms of help? And because the requests
cue-3
are not too demanding, then you feel obligated to comply with their requests.
cue-4
If such individuals eventually request a more significant
cue-5
favor, you are more likely to grant their request.
cue-6
Fraudsters exploit people's tendency to remain consistent by
cue-7
requesting something minor in an initial email and then gradually
cue-8
escalating their demands in subsequent messages.
cue-9
One example of the principle of consistency in the context of a phishing
cue-10
attack could be when an attacker sends an initial email asking the victim
cue-11
to fill out a survey,
cue-12
the victim completes the survey providing personal information such as
cue-13
their name and email address.
cue-14
Later, the attacker sends a follow up email posing as a trustworthy
cue-15
organization and asks the victim to enter their credit card information to
cue-16
complete a purchase, citing their previous completion of the survey as
cue-17
evidence of their interest.
cue-18
The victim may be more likely to comply with this request due to the principle of
cue-19
consistency as they have already taken a small step towards providing
cue-20
personal information.